---
layout: recipe
category: recipes
permalink: /vegan-bacon
title: Vegan Bacon
mine: no
thumbnail: /assets/thumbs/names_georgia_blog_thumb.png
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Ingredients
-----------
* 1 package tempeh of choice, slice in long thin slices
* 1/8 cup organic maple syrup
* 1 teaspoon Cedar House Liquid Smoke
* 1/4 cup unfiltered apple cider vinegar
* 3/4 teaspoon ground cumin
* dash of cayenne pepper
* 1/8 cup tamari
* 1 teaspoon black pepper, ground
* 1 tablespoon organic extra virgin coconut oil, melted (I used soybean oil, which was perfectly good)

Steps
------
Slice the tempeh into thin slices.

Combine all ingredients listed in a large non-stick skillet.
Heat the marinade till the coconut oil melts, then add the tempeh strips.
Bring the contents of the pan to a simmer over low heat and cover with a lid.

Cook for about 5 minutes and then flip each tempeh bacon strip over and cover the pan for another 5 minutes.

This steaming process removes the bitterness and infuses the strips with the marinade spices.

fter 5 minutes, remove the lid and over medium-high heat continue to cook on each side till the tempeh strips are a crispy caramelized brown and the marinade is completely evaporated.

The maple syrup in the marinade provides a nice caramelization to occur during the cooking process. And since sugars burn easily, you’ll want to keep a close eye on the tempeh strips.

Use and Storage of the Tempting Tempeh “Bacon” Strips
When finished, lay the cooked tempeh on a cookie sheet lined with parchment paper keeping the slices in one layer and flat like strips of cooked bacon or just let them completely cool right in the skillet.

Once cooled, use the Tempting Tempeh “Bacon” Strips to create sandwiches or wraps, crumple atop fresh cooked pasta or over a fresh lettuce salad.
Store leftovers in a covered dish in the refrigerator for use later.

Links
-----
http://www.chezbettay.com/pages/basics1/basics_How_to_Make_Vegan_Bacon.html

Notes
-----
I tried two vegan bacon recipes and this was the best. Great!


